And if it's if it's going either way of is possibly skewed.
OK Mode's at the top.
What can be what has to be the next one all the golf abettor clear eyed so you can never have the mean
in-between the median the mode.
It's always the median is in between two modes here.
Median mean you will always remember which is which.
So yeah just just remember that and of course if it's like in this case they couldn't go this way they
always go into the soil was the direction of the long from the more they go towards the direction of
the longer tail.
So just a quick visual trick on how to remember them.
So again you're always on top on your feet when you're speaking the statistics language.
So there you go.
That's the mean median mode.
Hope you enjoyed.
Historial and look for them.
Until then happy analyzing.
look at for example the underlying data.
What does the underlying data look like.
There it is.
That's all the underlying data is written out that is characterized by this probability density function.
Again just to reiterate one more time a distribution is something that is attached to the data rather
than a chart.
You don't have to have a chart to have a distribution.
The data has a distribution.
We're just visualizing it with this probability density function to simplify our understanding and to
help us visually assess things.
So now we're going to look at as the title for this tutorial just mean median MULHER we're going to
plot these things and understand what they are.
So I mean we just take all values and we take the average of them.
We take average mean they're synonymous.
So we clot the mean here at sixty four point ninety eight.
Somewhere over there on this chart.
So that pretty straightforward we've already worked with them before.
Next we're going to talk about the medium.
So what is the median.
The median is very interesting and that's why I actually wrote out these values here so far for I mean
you can just you know add them up.
But for the media to understand it better it's a really good idea to write them out.
So what you need to do for the median is you need to take an equivalent number of values from the left
and the same number of values from the right.
So let's do that.
There we go.
So we've got one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12 here and one two three four five
six seven eight nine 10 11 12.
So you need to take it equal values equal numbers of values and the maximum.
So you can take like five and five.
You need to take as many as you can and you will either have a situation where you have one in the middle
if you have an odd number of values in your data or you have nothing in the middle if you have an even
number of values.
In either case just put a vertical A imaginary vertical line between these two.
Even if it goes through some some value if it goes through the value then that is going to be your median
that values going to be a median.
In our case that is the case that 63 or.
If there is no value here then your median will be the average between these two so sixty three point
seven plus 64 divided by two is your media that would have been the case if we if we had an even number
of records in our days.
The important thing to remember here and something that I remember when I was kind of like getting into
this space I always kept wondering is it the case or not the case.
So I think visual anchors are the best I'm going to give you a visual anchor now so you always remember
this thing forever.
What do you do of duplicates.
The answer is you include duplicates so you can see here we've got sixty two point five.
Three times you included in writing out so you don't just write sixty two point five at once.
No not that confusion in my understanding came from the way I think thinking about I was thinking about
as a chart thing I guess so what is this chart doing.
Aha.
OK.
So what if I want to get the middle here.
Do I get the middle of the chart.
Do I take the minimum the maximum and get the middle of the chart.
Well in that case then you want that's that's exactly what would happen if you wouldn't take the duplicate
token because you just have all the values here.
And in fact it's not even what would happen because you know it just happened the middle of the range
rather than the media and that would be something completely incorrect.
But still I was thinking Oh yeah what's the chart doing is the chart taking the duplicates and all gone
or not.
Forget about the chart.
Just think of it the data what does the data doing in the data.
Do you have duplicates if you do have to because you do take them into account.
So there you go.
So you have duplicates here you can see more we have duplicates here.
We have another duplicate value over here so we do write all of the values out regardless of their duplicate
or not we just write all of them out.
Then we get the median.
The beauty about the median.
It's like I mean it's very similar to the mean.
It's a lot of the time you'll actually hear people in analysis use the median instead of the mean and
the reason for that.
Most of the time the reason for that is that the median is not affected by outliers it is affected by
outliers but a very it so just think of this example if the incentive 2:53 we had here 1 million.
So you had what is this.
This is height right as height and inches.
OK so we could have one million here somebody could be 1 million inches tall.
Probably not but we could still have one million here if for example in a dataset you have an anomaly
or an irregularity or something or let's say even if we don't have an in a million but we have like
a very tall person 2.5 meters tall the tallest person on the planet.
So I'm not sure how much it'll be in inches but let me just quickly check it so I checked and 2.5 meters
is 98 inches so let's say you have somebody who's 100 inches tall here obviously that's a that's an
outlier.
That's somebody who's very much told very different to the rest of our data and the mean is going to
be affected a lot because you're going to calculate add that in your average sense like is pretty much
like adding to people or you know one and a half people into your into your calculation and Eastern
so this mean will increase substantially.
Not the same way but crease as if this was 73 or if this was you know 80 or 65.
Not as if it was a normal value like an expected type of value.
But if you calculate the median if you have 100 inches here the median is going to be the same it isn't
going to change because it's simply you count the number here and the number here you get the middle
you don't.
It does it's not affected by.
So even if you had a million here your median would not be affected.
So that's that's a part of the median and sometimes that is helpful.
Sometimes people do were as you'll see will be using the mean a lot but that just so you know that in
some cases the median can be more useful.
All right so that's mean median and nélisse about the mode.
So the mode in in a discrete probability distribution visualization is much easier to see the mode in
this one.
It's also not that hard you just look at the very top part.
So the highest part of your distribution in that case in this case is us there and then you find that
that points in your probability density function which is the highest and most amount here is sixty
two point five.
The very very top part.
So you put a line through it and you see where it crosses.
Why is it easier for a discrete distribution.
Because they have buckets and you just basically have rectangles and you just pick the highest rectangle
and you see what buckets associated with.
So it's usually labeled and you can see right away they're here.
Here you have to like actually think about it not think about just like put the slide through it but
and it's easier to understand in the discrete distribution you have buckets so that what is the mode
or the mode is the most frequent value the more.
So if you have let's say Germany France Spain and England and you and Germany has the highest bucket
in a in a discrete distribution that means the most frequent value is Germany.
That's it.
Out of out of your dataset or out of what the distribution function is describing.
Whereas here you can say that because as we discussed the possibility of getting this value exactly
zero.
So the mode is actually it's not that intuitive You can't just say it's the most frequent value it's
the value that if you take a little area around it it will be the most likely area as opposed to anywhere
else you take that same same area of with that type of thing because remember you have to always take
a range.
So that's the mode but the easiest way is just look at the chart and the find the top part.
That's where the mode is so mean median mode.
And just to reiterate on the mode as you can see 61 why this is relevant for us or this is the case
was it a said because you see 60 to 60 to 62 62.
He said that he sees that he sees two hundred five.
So you can see it somewhere on there again in a discrete distribution if we like we fool around and
all of these down to the first 2 0 decimal points and this will be 60 to 6 to 60 to 62.
And this would be the most frequent value.
That's what we wanted to do if we wanted to bucketed we could market it like from you know different
ways you could do 60 to 50 60 to 65 65 70 is on again we would be able to find them more there as well.
OK.
So that's that's the mode what I wanted to do is let's have a look at so mean more.
Let's have a look at how they are arranged in positively in a negatively skewed as opposed to rescue
distribution.
The others are here.
Let's flip this over and see how their range here.
So in a negative skew distribution they are arranged in the following manner.
So naturally they just range in opposite direction to what the mean here.
The median name on it that's always going to be the case for a distribution that was never going negatively
skewed You always going to have the mean the median mode or the possibly skew you're going to have the
more the median mean and the way to remember it is I'm going to give you a visual clue how to remember
this is like I had to come up with this myself in order to remember in which order they go because I
like it it was obvious now went through it but when you just see a distribution and somebody asked you
where's the median and mode.
And he said maybe just see some points outline but not labeled.
You know it'll be hard to realize which ones which.
But just remember look at them they go alphabetically.
So there's a visual clue.
So if this is the m e a.
So that's the first one.
M e d.
That's the second one em all alphabetically.
That's the way.
And just kind of think of it in like if it's a negatively skewed distribution then it's mean median
mode that way if it's supposedly skewed distribution it's going to be more median mean.
So you just have to remember one of them you just have to remember mode that it's always at the top
it's always at the peak.
That's where the mode is.
And from there regardless of which way it's facing if it's facing this way like this one if it's negatively
skewed just Gog and Mode's here on the golf Brickley So this has to be the median and it has to be the